# Music Player
## Milestone 4
## Code Structure
- 'classes' package: contains the core classes that we listed that include 'Track', 'Song', 'Audiobook','Playlist', 'Episode', 'Podcast', 'TrackRepository', 'SongManager', 'PlaylistManager', 'SongReadCallback'.
- 'classes' changes: didn't really see any uses with audiobook, episodes, or podcasts still, really focused on songs and playlists. Created new classes such as PlaylistManager and SongManager to help deal with related functions. Some features include creating songs, adding them into the masterSongList, removing them, extracting metadata, saving and loading the masterSongList. Playlist features include creating, loading, saving, deleting, and renaming.
- 'edu.metrostate' package: contains MainApp and the MainSceneController where we will be controlling the application. The MainSceneController deals heavily with UI components such as action handlers and listeners to update based on what the user is doing. Such features include updating songListView when adding/removing/searching songs, updating PlaylistView when deleting, adding, renaming. Other features also include visual cues of the three different states of shuffle, and the 2 states of repeat. Also included are volume control, progress bar slider interactions and more.
- 'resources': contains the musicplayertest.fxml that we've generated from SceneBuilder, instead of hardcoding Strings into the ListViews, the ListViews are now populated with what they would have in them. SongListView would be populated with songs, and PlayListView with playlists. The resources directory also includes a folder of images used for buttons and graphics, especially when switching between shuffle states and repeat states.

## Functional Requirements
- 'Add': Users can add/import mp3 files into the application by simply dragging such files over the Song List box in the application. The SongListView outline will turn blue meaning that it is good to let go of the mouse. Once letting go, the songs will then turned into media objects, extracting their metadata and display on the SongListView. Upon selecting songs in the SongListView, metadata components such as title, artist, album image, and genre will appear on the right side of the application.
- 'Remove': Users can remove mp3 files by right clicking a song in the SongListView box and select "Remove From Library", this action will remove the song entirely from the masterSongList and the SongListView will be updated to reflect that change. The user is also able to select a playlist, and then right click on a song in that playlist and select "Remove from playlist" in order to remove that song from the playlist, it will not affect the masterSongList but only the playlist. The user is also able to remove Playlists that they may have created by right clicking on a Playlist and selecting "Remove PlayList", this action will remove and update the Playlist from the Playlist ListView.
- 'Play': Users can play mp3 files that they have imported into the application. Simply select a song from the SongListView and hit play. The audio will play, you can also parse through the song via the progressSlider at the bottom and adjust the volume via the volume slider on the bottom right. Upon clicking the previous button, if the song has been played for more than 3 seconds, it will rewind the song back to 0, if less than 3, it will play the previous song. The next button simply goes to the next song in the list dependent on the repeat state, if repeat button is on no repeat mode it will simply go to the next song and play it unless it is the last song in the list, if so next does nothing. If repeatMode is on repeat_list mode, next button will play the next song, if it is the last song it will wrap around back to the start. If repeatMode is on repeatSong, next button will simply start the selected song once again.
- 'Search': Users can search for songs within the SongListView by click the textField listed above the SongListView box. It will return songs that contain such strings. This function can also work when selecting a playlist, searching will reflect what is in the specific playlist instead of the masterSongList.
- 'Save/Load': Users have their songs and playlists saved via a txt file. Upon exiting the application, the application calls a saveMasterSongList and savePlaylists function that write the paths of the songs onto songs.txt file. Upon application startup, the application calls the load functions and creates media objects, extracts metadata, and displays them based on the txt file. Similarly, the playlist.txt file contains the name of the playlist, followed by the paths of the songs in that playlist. If a txt file is empty, the application ListViews will simply reflect that and show up blank.
- 'Playlist': Users are able to create playlists and add songs to specific playlists. These playlists are saved upon exiting the application. These playlists can be viewed by clicking on them in the PlayListView box, doing so will update the SongListView box to reflect what songs are currently in that playlist.

## Non-functional Requirements
- 'Usability': Users can easily tell which buttons do what due to the ease of the UI. Play button plays a song, back button either rewinds or goes to the previous track, next button goes to the next track, shuffle and repeat cycle through states. They can easily select what songs they want to see details and play, and also select which playlist they want to view. They can right click items in both ListViews to create or delete items.
- 'Flexibility': Currently the application is simply for playing music, specifically mp3 files, but we also have other classes such as podcasts, and audiobooks that can be integrated so that the application is much more than just a music player. It can become a media player that could accept more than one type of file (mp3) and even potentially play videos using the JavaFX library.
- 'Portability': Since we are developing this in Java, the program will be portable meaning that it can be run on any computer system that has a Java Virtual Machine (JVM).
- 'Performance': The music player seamlessly refreshes the SongListView and PlaylistView upon actions that may change it. Such actions like adding, deleting songs/playlists, searching for songs, renaming playlists, and updating the song information displayed on the right. Performance wise, we could see an improvement on the extraction of metadata, due to JavaFX's limitation, the method to extract metadata revolves around the idea of creating a mediaPlayer for each song and calling mediaPlayer.play() which is necessary to extract the metadata from the mp3 files. We could potentially use other third part libraries in order to combat this issue.
## Running the Application
To run the application follow these steps:

1. Ensure that you have Java Development Kit (JDK) installed on your system.
2. Extract the zip file.
3. Open the file via an IDE (we are using IntelliJ Community Edition).
4. This application will require JDK version 17, make sure you have that installed.
5. If you are using another IDE, you can locate MainApp.java in App\src\main\java\edu.metrostate\MainApp and run that file.
6. If you are using IntelliJ, click on the elephant icon on the top right side if using IntelliJ to synchronize project and dependencies.
7. Ensure that "Music Player" run configuration is selected in the dropdown menu to the left of the green button on the top right side of the toolbar
8. Click the play button, the project should then compile and start the application, showing the skeleton of our application UI.